=head1 NAME

B<xmpack> - manage the XtratuM system image container

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xmpack> B<build> [ {-h|-b|-p} I<file>[I<:file>...] ...] I<container>

B<xmpack> B<list> -c I<container>

B<xmpack> B<extract> [I<-o> I<file>] -c I<noComponent> -f I<noFile> I<container>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xmpack> manipulates the XtratuM system container. The container is a simple
filesystem designed to contain the XtratuM hypervisor core and zero or more
partitions.

The container file should be written in ROM. At boot time, the resident
software is in charge of reading the contents of the container and coping the
components to the RAM areas where the hypervisor and he partitions will be
executed. Note that XtratuM has no knowledge about the container structure.

The container is organised as a list of C<components>. Each component is a
list of files. A component is used to store an executable unit, which can be:
the XtratuM hypervisor, a bootable partition or a non-bootable partition. Each
component is a list of one or more files. The first file shall be a valid
XtratuM image (see the XtratuM binary file header). The rest of files of the
components are optional and can be used to attach extra data (for example the
configuration table for the XtratuM component or the customization file for
partition ones).

B<xmpack> is a helper utility that can be used to deploy an XtratuM system. It
is not mandatory to use this tool to deploy the application (hypervisor and
the partitions) in the target machine.

=over 4

=item B<[build]> 

A new container is created. Three kind of components can be included: 

=over

=item B<-h> to create an [H]ypervisor component; 

=item B<-b> to create a [B]ootable partition; and

=item B<-p> to create a non-bootable [P]artition.

=back

The files that are part of each component are specified as a list separated
by "B<:>".

=item B<[list]> 

Shows the contents (components and the files of each component) of a
container. If the option B<-c> is given, the blocks allocated to each file are
also shown.


=item B<[extract]> 

Writes in the output file the specified file. The file is identified as the
component number (parameter B<-c>) and the file within the component
(parameter B<-f>).
 
=back

=head1 USAGE EXAMPLES

A new container with one hypervisor and one booting partition. The hypervisor
  container has two files: the hypervisor binary and the configuration table:

  $ xmpack build -h ../core/xm_core.bin:xm_ct.bin -b partition1.bin -o container

The same example but the second container has now two files: the partition
image and a customisation file:

  $ xmpack build -h ../core/xm_core.bin:xm_cf.bin \
                 -b partition1.bin:p1.cfg \
			     -b partition2.bin:p2.cfg container.bin



List the contents of the container:

  $ xmpack list container.bin
  <Package file="container.bin" version="1.0.0">
    <XMHypervisor file="../core/xm_core.bin" fileSize="97188" offset="0x0" size="97192" >
        <Module file="xm_cf.bin" size="8976" />
    </XMHypervisor>
    <Partition file="partition1.bin" fileSize="29996" offset="0x19eb8" size="30000" >
        <Module file="p1.cfg" size="16" />
    </Partition>
    <Partition file="partition2.bin" fileSize="30292" offset="0x213f8" size="30296" >
        <Module file="p2.cfg" size="16" />
    </Partition>
  </Package>




